# Problem 1

*Comparing estimates across uneven groups can distort the order*

# Example:
 
Suppose we are measuring incidences of heart disease across United States counties. We are interested in the counties with the highest rate of incidence to funnel aid, and counties with the lowest rates to understand habits to promote across other areas. Computing the incidence rate across counties reveals that a rural county in North Dakota has the lowest levels: perhaps due to the hard-working physical lifestyles, and the organic, hearty diets. The same study concluded that a neighbouring county in North Dakota had the *highest* incidence rate of heart disease: probably due to the hard-working, physical lifestyles and hearty meals. 

Is this really the case? Does North Dakota really have such polar counties? Probably not. More likely the naive estimate, $\frac{{\text{Cases of heart disease}}{\text{county's population}}$, is highly unstable and variable for small population sizes. Think of the extreme case: if the only individual in a county with population of 1 is diagnosed with heart disease, then the county's incidence rate is 100%! 

The error comes from trying to rank, or order, estimates from significantly uneven populations. The groups with small populations have higher variance in their estimates (as a consquence of the Law of Large Numbers not strongly applying), thus these groups will likely dominate the highest and lowest positions. 

When presented with ordered means, proportions, or any other computed estimates, look at the most extreme groups, and likely they will have the smallest populations. 