# Problem 2

*Regression to the mean*

Consider the following situation: a city installs red-light cameras at the intersections with the highest rate of 
accidents, in order to reduce the number of accidents. The next year, the city reports that the number of accidents was indeed reduced from the previous year. 

This outcome is entirely plausbile even if the red-light cameras had *absolutely no* effect on reducing accidents. The intersections that were most extreme in the first year may have been extreme due to chance: they just happened to have a larger number of accidents that year. The next year, these intersections would very likely have *less* accidents than the previous year, due to not being "lucky" like in the previous year. Thus the rate of accidents were appear to decrease. 

Another example: After a school exam, the Professor takes the top 10% of students from the exam and notes their average mark. In this top 10%, there will be students who are indeed smart, and students simply got lucky on the test. The professor could have this 10% take another exam, and will likely observe the average be significanly lower than the first average. 

More generally,  extreme observations tend to *regress* back towards to the population mean. These extreme observations have a good chance of being extreme due to chance, hence subsequent observations will not be as impressive. 

*Solution* 

A split test is required. From the first example, had the city officals only added cameras to half of the worst intersections then one could conclude whether the cameras had a signigicant effect. This is done by comparing the accident differences between the two groups in the second year. 
